# v0.6

This is a major overhaul release, which includes a number of breaking changes.
See below for a migration guide.

High-level changes (breaking changes highlighted):
- *The configuration file format has changed to .toml, the name of the file
  is now `stone.toml` (was previously `config.stone`).*
- *The `data/` folder has been removed. Instead, a new `templates/` directory is
  introduced to contain template files. Other static files should go in `pages/`
  (e.g. `pages/static/`). There is no special handling of static files
  anymore.*.
- *Page titles can now be specified in the config for any page, instead of only
  header pages; see the [documentation](doc/pages/Specs.md#page-titles).*
- *The mechanism for custom "exporters" and custom templates has been
  generalized. The configuration now specifies a list of "rules"; see the
  [documentation](doc/pages/Specs.md#rules) for more details.*
- *In templates, the `CSS` variable has been removed. Instead, a more general
  `PATH_TO_ROOT` variable is provided. See the
  [documentation](doc/pages/Specs.md#templates).*
- Switch to the [Cmarkit](https://github.com/dbuenzli/cmarkit) library for
  rendering markdown. *This may change the HTML ids generated for headings and
  used in anchors, check your links.*
- *Removed the template generated by `stone -i` for `mlorg`.*
- Stone is much faster (~20x) after fixing its naive file copy implementation.
- NB: the loading of fonts was fixed in the recent 0.5.2 release, *resulting
  in visual changes if you were previously relying on the fallback fonts*.

## Migration guide

- `mkdir templates` and move your templates from `data/` to `templates/`
- move remaining files in `data` to `pages/static/`; then `rmdir data/`
- edit your templates, replace `$CSS$` by 
  `<link href="$PATH_TO_ROOT$static/style.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet">`
- if you used the default `style.css` or templates, be sure to check the updated
  version
  ([style.css](https://github.com/Armael/stone/blob/master/data/style.css),
  [template](https://github.com/Armael/stone/blob/master/data/template.html))
  for any changes that you need to backport.
- create a minimal `stone.toml` by copying [the default file](data/stone.toml).
  Then:
  + `Title` (in `config.stone`) becomes `title` (in `stone.toml`)
  + Items of `Pages` must be split into the `header` and `page_title` settings.
    Additionally, path to files now refer to the files *after processing* rather
    than before. For example, `Pages = [("index.md", "Home")]` becomes:
    ```
    header = ["index.html"]
    
    [page_title]
    "index.html" = "Home"
    ```
  + `DefaultTemplate` corresponds to the `template` setting in the default
    `[[rule]]` block for markdown.
  + if you have custom `Exports` or `PagesTemplates`, you need to define
    custom rules. See the [documentation on rules](doc/pages/Specs.md#rules).
  + `ExtraStatic` is gone, static files should be put somewhere in `pages/` and
    will be copied as-is.
  + `DirPerm` and `FilePerm` are gone; their previous default value is now
    used in all cases.
- check any known links to the headers of your pages; header ids may have
  changed with the switch to cmarkit. See the [documentation on
  markdown](doc/pages/Specs.md#markdown-engine).
