## « Just write it » : easily generate portfolios, documentation,…

*Stone* is a static website generator : it takes a template, a css
 stylesheet, the content itself written in a high-level formatting
 syntax, and generates the corresponding html pages.
 
 However, *Stone* isn't a generalistic one : his goal is to provide a
 very easy way to generate simple websites like a portfolio, or the
 pages of documentation for a small project. That is quite limitated,
 but *Stone* tries to be good at what it aims.
 
### First steps with *Stone*

So, let's generate our first *Stone*-based website !

First, [get Stone](get-it.html). That's the more complicated step of
the process.

You now have a `stone` binary. You can put it where you want, it is
self-sufficient. I will here assume it is in the current folder.

Type `stone --help` to have some explanations on how to use the
binary : let's first generate a default website :

{{
    ./stone -i my_portfolio
    ls my_portfolio
}}

As you can see, a directory has been initialized with a default
project, which consists in :
* A config file (`config.stone`), which holds the title of the
  website, and the list of the pages to display in the title bar
* A `data` directory, which contains the template and the
  stylesheet. As long as you use the default theme, you won't need to
  modify them.
* A `pages` directory. This is where you write your pages. Just create
  a file for each page, with the `.markdown` or `.md` extension, and
  write your content in it, in
  [(a slightly modified) Markdown syntax.](specs.html#h3-Pagessyntax)

You can now tweak the `config.stone` a little, write things in
`pages`, or just leave the default config. Finally, we can generate
the html content :

{{
    ./stone my_portfolio
    ls my_portfolio
}}

A new directory as appeared : `site`. It contains the html pages,
generated by *Stone*. If you have a FTP access to a web server
somewhere, just upload on it the contents of `site`. You can also
directly browse its contents locally with your favorite browser.

### How to go further

* For a more complete example, this documentation is written thanks to
  *Stone*. You can look at the [sources](contribute.html#h3-Sources).
* Read the [specifications](specs.html) about the templates and the
  relevant css properties, and make your own templates and themes.
* Feel free to [contribute](contribute.html) !
